.TH SECRETD 1 "2026" "secretd" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
secretd \- secure local password manager

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B secretd
[\fICOMMAND\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
secretd is a security-focused local password manager.
Vaults are encrypted using Argon2id and AES-256-GCM.
No cloud. No sync. No telemetry.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file is located at:
.B ~/.config/secretd/config.toml
.br
It can be viewed or edited using:
.br
.B secretd config show
.br
.B secretd config edit

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B init
Initialize a new encrypted vault.

.TP
.B unlock
Unlock the vault and verify password.

.TP
.B add <title> [--generate <len>]
Add a new entry.

.TP
.B list
List entry titles.

.TP
.B show <title> [--reveal]
Show entry details.

.TP
.B update <title>
Update an entry.

.TP
.B delete <title>
Delete an entry.

.TP
.B change-master-password
Re-encrypt vault with a new password.

.TP
.B generate [len]
Generate a password.

.TP
.B export <json|csv>
Export vault without passwords.

.TP
.B doctor
Run environment diagnostics.

.TP
.B config show
Print config file path.

.TP
.B config edit
Open config in $EDITOR.

.TP
.B version
Print version information.

.SH FILES
.TP
~/.local/share/secretd/vault.json
Encrypted vault.

.TP
~/.config/secretd/config.toml
User configuration.

.TP
~/.local/share/secretd/secretd.log
Security log file.

.SH SECURITY
Vault permissions are set to 0600.
Clipboard is auto-cleared after timeout.
Passwords are never written to disk in plaintext.

.SH AUTHOR
saintmili

.SH LICENSE
MIT

